* IOR repository Id: This is the type id of the object referenced by this IOR.  This is usually inferred from the interface definition in the IDL file. It can be explicitly changed by 'Pragma' keyword in the IDL.  The client stub generated from IDL contains this type id and when an IOR (loaded from file or looked up in NamingService or returned from another object method call) is converted to 'org.omg.CORBA.Object', the type in the generic object is going to be checked the type stored in the stub.  If they do not match, an exception is thrown.

* org.omg.CORBA.TRANSIENT: initial and forwarded IOR inaccessible: this is thrown if the address(IP and port) in IOR cannot be reached.


* in WAS when SSL is set to 'Required' in inbound CSIv2, the IOR of any EJB object has port 0. why?  Because if inbound CSIv2 only accepts SSL connection, it send 0 in the port field of IIOP profile in the IOR as an indication that the ORB TCP/IP listener port is not available.  However, it includes the actual SSL ports in the tagged component (#33) TAG_CSI_SEC_MECH_LIST.  This is why the client which does not support SSL (in sas.client.props) get the error 'initial and forwarded IOR inaccessible' because it tries to connect to the port field set in the IIOP profile (which is zero).  When client SSL (in sas.client.props) is set to 'Required' or 'Supported' and the server SSL is 'Required', then it will read the port from TAG_CSI_SEC_MECH_LIST tagged component.
If WAS SSL is set to 'Supported', then it will send the ORB TCP/IP port in IIOP profile port field in addition to the SSL port in TAG_CSI_SEC_MECH_LIST tagged component.

* Tagged Component 33: TAG_CSI_SEC_MECH_LIST: contains description of CSIv2 
The structure of the tagged component is described here: http://www.omg.org/spec/CORBA/3.1/20030101/CSIIOP.idl

* One way of overriding JDK ORB with another ORB implementation is set JVM property -Djava.endorsed.dirs to point to the directory that contains the ORB implementation jar.  This is the IBM recommended way.
Another way is set these JVM properties -Dorg.omg.CORBA.ORBClass and -Dorg.omg.CORBA.ORBSingletonClass.  This is the JacORB way.

* The IBM WebSphere ORB implementation (taken from WAS v8.5.5 runtime folder: com.ibm.ws.orb_8.5.0.jar) does not work with JDK 8 as some classes that are used by this ORB are removed.  The ORB CSIv2 implementation and interceptors are in the thin client jar 'com.ibm.ws.ejb.thinclient_8.5.0.jar'

* to decode an IOR, use 'dior.bat' tool in JacORB bin folder.  It also decodes CSIv8 tagged components in the IOR.

* Java ORB portability layer:
https://books.google.com.sa/books?id=Vk3REMF9lIAC&pg=PA197&lpg=PA197&dq=java+corba+delegate&source=bl&ots=129mmF1Cg8&sig=FCUHKTv9ZG8YJn9POIddNxZh2MU&hl=en&sa=X&ei=dWjcVLz9N4P5UrvrgJgF&ved=0CE8Q6AEwCQ#v=onepage&q=java%20corba%20delegate&f=false

Java ORB Portability API: stub and sekeleton generated by one tool (vendor) will work with any ORB implementation.
The Stub and Sekeleton delegate call to Delegate class which has the vendor specific implementation.

The deleagte has this method: _is_local which checks if the servant is local to the ORB instance and provides optimized
call.  All stub implementation make use of this.

* Java ORB Portable Interceptors:
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/idl/PI.html#AServiceInterceptor

* Corba INS:
http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/idl/INStutorial.html
